- [Instructor] The Java Messaging Service, or JMS,
has been a part of Java EE since version 1.2,
so it's been a part of the platform for a while.
The introduction of JMS version 2.0 simplified
the JMS API, making it much easier to work
with the messaging technology.
Messaging is a common integration pattern used
by Java applications, and there are many middle-tier
messaging service implementations.
The JMS API provides a common approach and schemantics
for Java applications that use messaging.
It also defines roles for messaging services,
known as JMS providers.
The messaging concepts in JMS can be applied by
developers to use multiple JMS providers without
specific knowledge of each of them.
Within JMS we'll find support for two styles of messaging,
point-to-point and publish subscribe.
Let's dive into the details of these two styles.
If we look at the point-to-point messaging style,
you will see that it starts with the JMS producer
writing a message to a queue.
The message is then consumed off the queue by a single
JMS consumer,
so one producer sends a message to one consumer.
The publish/subscribe messaging style uses a topic
instead of a queue.
The topic allows messages to be distributed to multiple
JMS consumers instead of a single consumer.
The structure of a JMS message contains three sections.
The headers, properties, and body.
The JMS headers are fixed across all JMS messages.
These headers include the destination, delivery method,
message ID, delivery time, and other envelope information.
The properties section of the message allows producers
or the JMS provider to add optional headers to the message
that can be read by consumers.
The body of a JMS message can be one of five types,
providing support for streams, maps, text, objects,
and bytes.
Next, let's take a look at the JMS APIs that are used
to send and receive messages.
Within the JMS API, we primarily use four interfaces
for sending and receiving messages.
The ConnectionFactory can be used by a JMS client
to obtain a connection with the JMS provider.
It also contains all of the configuration information
regarding the connection.
The JMSContext combines a connection and a session
which are used to create the producer and the consumer.
Typically the JMSContext is container managed within
a Java EE application.
The consumer API is the interface used to read
messages from a topic or a queue.
Contrarily, the producer is used for sending messages.
We'll see these APIs in action as we work through
the remainder of the lessons in this chapter.